# The Easy Meal


##### Link to Deployed Site:

[The Easy Meal](https://the-easy-meal.herokuapp.com/)


__A web app for finding recipes & putting together a shopping list__  

Users can register/login to begin searching for recipes by search query, diet, and/or cuisine of choice. Searching will result in an infinite scroll of matching recipe cards.  

Clicking the resulting cards takes the user to a recipe detail page for the clicked card, where they are provided more information, including instructions and ingredients for the recipe.  

At any point, users can save a recipe by clicking the heart icon on either the recipe card or detail page. 

From the recipe detail page, users can auto-populate their grocery list with the ingredients for the current recipe. Doing so prompts the user with an option to view their grocery list or stick around.

While viewing their grocery list, users can email their list to themselves, clear their list, and add or remove individual items at their discretion. 

## Features

This web app goes a bit beyond basic CRUD with the recipe search and grocery list email features.  

I chose to focus my time this app implementing these features as I believe they offered the greatest value to users.  

Looking forward I would love to revisit this project to add the ability to sort user favorites, and view/follow other users to see their favorite recipes. 
 

## Data:  

This website uses the [Spoonacular API](https://spoonacular.com/food-api/) for recipe information. 

They have a really well-made product with excellent customer service, so integrating with their API was _almost_ a no-brainer. 


## Tech:

This application uses __Python__ with __Flask__ for server-side logic.

HTML templates are served with __Jinja__, with forms generated by __Flask WTForms__. 

Database management is done with __PostgreSQL__ and __Flask SQLAlchemy__ for object-relational mapping.  

Front end styling is largely handled by __Bootstrap__ with __Font Awesome__ icons, and custom CSS for project-specific styles. 

Recipe card generation is all done with __AJAX (Axios)__, with RESTful routing via the backend. 

This app is deployed for free on __Heroku__. Your first page load may be a big slow if noone has visited the app in some time, but it's free, so we can't complain! 